---
title: Japan Day Three. Hiroshima
---

🌱

26/09/2024

This is day three of our trip. You can find the [[japan-day2|second day here]] and the [[japan-day4|fourth day here]].

## English

This morning we took a short walk to a local Okonomiyaki shop for a hearty breakfast before our big day of sightseeing in Hiroshima. The shop was a cute little corner store with a very nice woman doing the front of house work. She told us "ちょとまて" (wait a moment) and we waited until enough space was free at the counter seats. Interestingly, even though solo diners were lining up behind us and there was enough space for them while we waited for two seats to be free, they were not seated until we were. I'm not sure if this is a cultural thing or if there was some other strategy going on. We picked the perfect time to come in as the line grew and grew while we ate.

The Okonomiyaki we had is a specialty of Hiroshima, often just called "Hiroshimayaki" , I later found out. Sitting at the counter, we could watch the chefs cooking the meal on the massive hot plate that was ringed by counter seats. The chefs cooked using two large spatula-like tools, kind of giant metal levers I suppose. The Hiroshimayaki consists of a tortilla-like base, topped with a lot of shredded cabbage, strips of bacon, various sauces, a fried egg, chicken (maybe) and probably other things I missed. Your choice of noodles are fried separately (udon or soba), and the growing tower of ingredients is flipped onto the noodles to form the final large, round stack of goodness. I got udon noodles and my girlfriend got soba. Soba was the recommended choice and I must say that the thinner style of noodle added a lovely crunch that the thick udon couldn't match. The servings are also incredibly generous and I had to help my girlfriend finish hers before we headed out for our sightseeing.

Our first stop was an art museum. I generally don't like art museums and that feeling was reinforced here. There were four large, blank rooms with about 10 paintings each by famous European artists, including Picasso. Need I say more. The basement contained a nice collection of Japanese art. These were of the classic ink on silk scrolls you might imagine, but I noticed that most of the mediums listed "India ink and Japanese colour on silk". I didn't realise that trade with India probably had a large impact on Japanese art. 

The walk from the art museum to the all important Hiroshima bomb dome and associated museum was quite long across the very glarey city scape. The sun was very hot and the weather this time of year quite humid. Needless to say, we required a pit stop along the way and were searching for a place to get a drink when we stumbled on a cat cafe.

The cat cafe was an odd experience. You pay a flat fee for the first 30 minutes of being there, with an extra cost for every 10 thereafter. Drinks are in addition to that price. This is a bit of an odd business model if you ask me as it seems to encourage people to leave as soon as they can. I suppose it is hard to charge cat time any other way though. The cafe was set up as a maze of little booths that the cats climbed over and between, with additional climbing spaces for them up the walls. Toys are also provided and for an additional charge you could buy the cats "Cat Lattes". These looked to me like some strange jelly that you fed them with a spoon, but it seemed the only way to really get their attention. I think they are so used to people that they are fairly uninterested, and more than the regular uninterestedness of their species. This is fine and I wasn't expecting more of cats, but that is clearly not a sentiment shared by all customers of the cafe. The woman working there came over to us and got the cats to climb onto our backs using treats. It was cute but it just felt a bit performative. I've heard that lots of cat cafes in Japan mistreat the cats but they all looked healthy to me and were of course very cute.

After our cat cafe break, we headed on to the main tourist destinations in Hiroshima: the bomb dome, peace park and peace museum. The whole park was flooded with school groups on this particular day, all wearing very similar white and black uniforms and being distinguishable only by their matching coloured hats. The park is full of peace monuments and one of these is dedicated particularly to all the children that died as a result of the fateful bombing of the city. We watched a group of students line up by this monument, pull recorders from their bags and play a sombre anthem. This was nice to see and I got the overall sense that the memory and retelling of the bombing are still very much important to Japanese people, especially the locals. I suppose it would be hard to not care about this when your entire city has rebuilt itself as a "peace city" and you are reminded of it every day. I definitely think Hiroshima residents would be some of the first to call foul on any global nuclear dangers and advocate strongly for disarmament.

After seeing all this I was curious to know what Hiroshima was like before its present identity and just what the extent of the damage had been, so we headed into the museum. The museum showed a 20 minute film with first and second hand accounts of events and the lasting impacts. I found this medium was really effective in communicating just how insane the scale of the atom bomb's damage was to the city and its people. The bomb flattened most of the city and burnt the rest. Those people who weren't immediately blown to pieces suffered fatal radiation burns or developed cancer and other lasting illnesses. It was a very moving experience.

Aside from the movie, I was disappointed with the rest of the museum. There was so much information just being shown in the classic "walk around and read wall of text" style that it was too much to take in all at once. The place was so busy that it was like being cattle herded through. You couldn't stop to read everything if you wanted. On top of this, a lot of information was very similar. Stories of family after family torn apart by the events, horrible effect after horrible effect. At some point a lot of these stories blur into one and your brain just bundles it all into "bad and sad event number 56". I definitely think the museum could do with some modernising to use more effective and immersive media. I left wondering about how Nagasaki might have remodelled itself differently after its bombing.

We needed a break after that gruelling experience and sat by the nearby river. With some patience, we began to see fish leaping out of the water, some multiple times in a row. They'd slap back down with a great noise and it was endlessly entertaining. I still haven't found out what kind of fish they were, despite asking a number of Japanese people.

As the sun was beggining to set we visited our first castle. All of it aside from the sturdy stone foundations was rebuilt as a replica after the original was levelled by the bomb. The main donjon (essentially the keep), was being used as a 6 floor museum. I would have liked to take more time here as they had a lot of information on the history of the area around Hiroshima and the Japanese feudal system. I learnt that land used to be given to local lords based on a measure of expected rice yield rather than area. The way the castle had been designed was also ingenious in terms of defence, using a combination of terrain features and man-made mechanisms. One that stuck with me is the fact that thick earth was used to build the walls of the moat so that in case of attack, these walls could be demolished to release a flood into the surrounding land and wash the attackers away. The information I did gather has sparked my desire to learn more about the Japanese feudal system in general. I was inspired to use this information in desigining my future TTRPG campaigns.

We found dinner much more quickly at another Izakaya and tried a "giant meatball" which was just beef mince with an egg cracked on top. It was very tasty though, as were the crepes we stopped for in the main shopping streets afterwards.

Back in our accomodation we turned on the TV and were hoping to find a funny Japanese game show. Instead, every channel was airing a variation on a clearly popular format where comedians are filmed going into public and performing seemingly everyday tasks. The clips are reviewed by the group of comedians in a studio where they all react and presumably make funny quips. I also noticed every group sort of checked the same boxes in terms of members. "The pretty girl", "the pretty boy", "the cynical old man", "the overweight woman", "the one who just makes shocked noises" etc. Needless to say these shows weren't very funny for us as non-Japanese speakers.

One advert kept being played as we switched between these channels. An advert for some firework display. It seemee oddly local and out of place among all the expected car and product ads. Little did we know, this was a bit of foreshadowing for [[japan-day5|day 5]].