---
title: Japan Day Two. Shinagawa and Hiroshima
---

🪴

25/09/2024

## English
This is the second day of our trip. You can find [[japan-day1|the first day here]] and the [[japan-day3|third day here]].

This morning we rose early and checked out of our tiny accomodation with some breakfast recommendations from the hosts. We decided to walk along the river to a nice pastry shop. Both of the breakfast recommendations we received were pastry shops, so I assumed this was a popular breakfast for the Japanese. An assumption that I found later to be incorrect. It seems they prefer a home cooked spread of various things.

We ordered a pancake, eggs, bacon and lettuce (strange addition) meal and some drinks. While those were getting prepared we were able to fill up a tray of pastries and bread. The food was all very pretty and the coffee surprisingly tasty. I'd been led to believe that Australians are coffee snobs and that coffee wasn't as good elsewhere. It seems this isn't the case in Japan. This place was right on the river and clearly catered to an upper class, but I'd go again if there weren't so many other places to try.

After breakfast we walked back to the train station with some hurry to board the Shinkansen to Hiroshima. I'd bought the tickets online the night before as there are only three train cars with unreserved seats, the other 13 requiring tickets purchase ahead of time. Most people talk with awe about riding a Shinkansen, but I found it to be similar to any other train, if a little less interesting. It is definitely impressive that we were able to travel along almost half of Japan's southern coastline in about four hours. Other than this though, things fly so quickly past the window that you can't really just relax and stare out. Hence, I spent most of the time writing up the previous day's post. 

My girlfriend and I did play a few rounds of a wallet sized game called [Liberation](https://buttonshygames.com/products/liberation). It's a surprisingly deep two player cat and mouse game about a sci-fi empire trying to find a rebellious sect somewhere in the galaxy (sound familiar?). It delivers enough depth for a boardgame hobbyist to enjoy it while being simple enough to learn as a casual gamer. And all that in just 18 cards that fit neatly in your wallet (or bum bag in my case).

One thing I found interesting about the Shinkansen was that they have officials patrolling the carriages every 20 minutes or so. If Japan wasn't such a friendly country or well known for its organisation, it might feel a bit authoritarian state.

We struggled a bit finding our accomodation in Hiroshima, spending a few sweaty minutes with our rucksacks on trying to open a mailbox that wasn't ours before finally realising we had the wrong building. The accomodation was tiny like the previous one, though we had our own bathroom. This bathroom was like a tiny plastic module that had been fitted into the stonework around it. I'm talking yellow plastic walls, floors, basin, toilet etc. It was so small that my head touched the ceiling exhaust fan when I showered. This exhaust fan also served an ingenous double purpose of blowing hot air into the room if desired, turning the entire playground style bathroom into a dryer for your clothes. Also multi-purpose was the tap in the basin, which, with the turn of a knob, re-routed the water to the shower head. Unfortunately, we could not get the hot water to work properly. I was forced to wash my long hair in very cold, very cramped conditions.

The accomodation had a great view into the busy side street below. In the cupboards were just the right supplies for two people and nothing else. Two mugs, two wine glasses, two tea cups, two sets of chopsticks, two teaspoons but only one fork and one dinner spoon. I thought it was a cute touch, very different from the western AirBnB filled with random extra junk that the home owner has lying around.

After a quick rest we had our first 7/11 experience. They've really got a bit of everything, from snacks to stationary, branded apple accessories and even huge cans of alcohol. We walked out with only a small bag of chocolate pretzels and some "Hiroshima" snack which is like a top-deck chocolate Mt Fuji filled with freeze dried strawberry.

Following this, we got lost in the urban sprawl. First we randomly decided to enter an electronics store that looked so empty we weren't sure it was open. Turns out it was an eight level monstrosity department store. Inside you could find TVs, phone accessories, white goods, beauty products, gaming setups, kids toys, boardgames, any book you could ever need and of course, coffee. The amount of sensory overload experienced by the sheer scale of the place, let alone the over the top Japanese advertising everywhere, was exhausting. After exploring all eight levels we were already feeling a overwhelmed and hungry, so we went sesrching for dinner.
 
We decided to wander and find a place for dinner but ended up turning down side street after side street, overwhelmed with options but not going into any of them. In retrospect, I think I had an idea of the perfect place to eat and wouldn't settle for less. A nice cozy, wood panelled Izakaya where I could have a big beer and try lots of little plates. Eventually we took a chance on one despite the lack of an English menu outside. The atmosphere in these places is great. The staff are so welcoming, the wood panelling makes everything so cozy and of course the food is extremely tasty. We sat on a bench seat and had an old man, presumably the sushi master of the restaurant from my observations, facing us the whole time. He was very polite and avoided eye contact but at the end of the meal when we said "とてもおいしい！" (very tasty), he cracked a big grin. I was really interested in the fact that it seemed like all the chefs had their own little station and that is all they did. If no sushi was being ordered, the old man would just sit and wait. I liked that idea of it being a place of masters of each meal.

After dinner we went looking for a cinema in the hopes we might catch a Japanese movie, even if we couldn't understand any of it. As we walked past a bar which sold lemon sours exclusively, a young bartender held up a sign against his window that said "Fancy a drink?". We hesitated but I thought it was probably meant to be and went inside. Immediately we realised he probably sucked tourists in with that trap all the time but so be it, we ordered two lemon sours.

There were two older women in there from Fukoaka province who spoke little English. They were impressed when we spoke a few words in Japanese. The bar tender's English was a bit better and he initiated some basic conversation asking where we were from etc. When we said "Australia" he muttered something ending in "むずかしい" (difficult). We weren't sure what he meant by that, but maybe that it was difficult to find topics to talk to Australians about because the conversation ran quite slowly after that.

A short time later, a businessman entered the bar and completely changed the dynamic. He was from Tokyo, on a two day business trip and was obviously looking for something to do on a Wednesday night in Hiroshima. His English was very good and not only was he very friendly and interesting to talk to, but he also helped translate our questions to the bartender and other patrons. We asked about a cinema and the only local, the bartender, told us that the last films are shown at 7pm and that we wouldn't find any close cinemas anyway. This surprised us as Hiroshima seemed so massive compared to what we were used to, how could there not be lots of cinemas showing late films? I suppose its a cultural difference. We then asked about dessert places which seemed another difficult question. We finally got a reccomendation for an ice cream place and quite quickly after that paid and left. 

The businessman offered to buy us another drink twice in the time we were in the bar. After leaving I felt like I'd missed an opportunity. If I had followed my gut in that moment I would have stayed and spent more time with him to see where the night might have went. At the very least, I would have liked to get his contact so we could meet up again when he was home in Tokyo and get some local recommendations. Alas, I didn't even get his name. I'm resolved to follow those spontaneous opportunities for the rest of the trip.

